Course Syllabus for "PRDV104: Professional Etiquette"
-----------------------------------------------------

What images come to mind when you think of the term professional?  Do
you picture an executive in a fancy suit strutting into a boardroom? 
Or, perhaps you envision a supervisor walking among cubicles and issuing
orders to employees.  While it is true that professionalism encompasses
how we present ourselves outwardly, the meaning of the term goes far
beyond appearances.  Professionalism also encompasses inward
characteristics and attitudes that affect how others in the workplace
perceive us.  The professional world can be full of challenging
situations, including conflicting personalities, miscommunication, and
cultural differences.  In this course, you will learn about typical
workplace etiquette protocols, communication standards, and cultural
awareness strategies in order to navigate these common obstacles as
smoothly as possible. By this point in Saylor’s Job Search Skills
courses in the Professional Development Program, you have started the
process of honing your professional image by producing a tailored résumé
and cultivating important interviewing skills.  This course will guide
you through additional strategies for establishing and maintaining your
professional image in the workplace.  Whether you are working on a
construction site or in a medical facility, practicing professional
etiquette will help ensure that your occupational environment is a
positive and productive one.  You will focus on integrating internal
attitudes with external behaviors so that your personal attributes work
together to enhance your professional image. You will begin this course
with an introduction to professional manners and common courtesy.  Then,
you will learn how to communicate effectively and courteously via common
workplace communication modes – verbal communication, nonverbal
communication, and virtual communication – paying particular attention
to how technology affects these forms of workplace communication.  In
the last unit of this course, you will investigate the topic of
workplace diversity in order to gain an awareness of differences and how
to respond to and respect them.

### Learning Outcomes

Upon successful completion of this course, the student will be able to:

-   Summarize the principles of proper courtesy as they are practiced in
    the workplace.
-   Describe ways to apply proper courtesy in different professional
    situations.
-   Identify and describe the qualities of a desirable employee from an
    employer’s perspective.
-   Distinguish among and describe the three common forms of workplace
    communication and how each may be used to handle a variety of
    situations.
-   Discuss the effects that improper communication and poor listening
    may have on the work environment.
-   Identify examples of the proper and improper use of technology in
    the workplace.
-   Evaluate how technology affects communication in the workplace.
-   Define the phrase *diversity in the workplace*.
-   Explain how cultural diversity affects the workplace.
-   Identify common cultural differences, taboos, and customs that may
    be practiced in the workplace, and discuss ways to navigate and
    honor such differences.

### Course Requirements

In order to take this course, you must:  
  
 √    Have access to a computer.  
  
 √    Have continuous broadband Internet access.  
  
 √    Have the ability/permission to install plug-ins or software (e.g.
Adobe Reader or Flash).  
  
 √    Have the ability to download and save files and documents to a
computer.  
  
 √    Have the ability to open Microsoft files and documents (.doc,
.ppt, .xls, etc.).  
  
 √    Have competency in the English language.  
  
 √    Have read the [Saylor Student
Handbook](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Saylor-StudentHandbook.pdf).  
  
 √    Have completed the following courses as prerequisites: PRDV101:
Job Search Skills, PRDV102: Interviewing Skills, and PRDV103: Resume
Writing.

### Course Information

Welcome to PRDV104.  General information on this course and its
requirements can be found below.  
  
 **Course Designer:** [Professor Abby
Sharp](http://www.saylor.org/faculty-o-t/#ProfessorAbbySharp)  
  
 **Primary Resources:** This course is composed of a range of different
free, online materials.  However, the course makes primary use of the
following materials:

-   [*Business Communication for Success, v.
    1.0*](http://www.saylor.org/site/textbooks/Business%20Communication%20for%20Success.pdf)
-   Mind Tools: [Essential Skills for an Excellent
    Career](http://www.mindtools.com/fulltoolkit.htm)

**Requirements for Completion:** In order to complete this course, you
will need to work through each unit and all of its assigned materials. 
You must also complete the Final Exam.  
  
 Please note that you will only receive an official grade on your Final
Exam.  However, in order to adequately prepare for this exam, please
work through the resources assigned in each unit.  
  
 In order to pass this course, you will need to earn a 70% or higher on
the Final Exam.  Your score on the exam will be tabulated as soon as you
complete it.  If you do not pass the exam, you may take it again.  
  
 **Time Commitment:** This course should take you a total of
approximately **3.75 hours** to complete.  Each unit includes a “time
advisory” that lists the amount of time you are expected to spend on
each subunit.  It may be useful to take a look at these time advisories
and determine how much time you have to complete each unit and to then
set goals for yourself based on your available time.  
  
 **Tips/Suggestions:** Prior to beginning this course, we suggest that
you interview a few professionals from different fields regarding
business etiquette.  Take notes on any office-place “do’s” and “don’ts”
that are mentioned in the interviews, as well as any tips your
interviewees suggest for creating a pleasant and respectful work
environment.  In doing so, you will gain a real-world basis for
understanding professional etiquette concepts that will aid you
throughout this course.  
  

